URL http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9E0DE2DD1530F934A35752C0A9619C8B63

DATE/ AUTHOR None	AUTHORS: Anthony Ramirez

H Doctor Killed by Ex-Owner of Yonkers Home, Police Say

S1 The former owner of a Yonkers house where a doctor was found shot to death last week has been charged in the murder, the Yonkers police said yesterday.
S2 They also suggested that he may have had an accomplice.

S3 The former owner, Samuel Saunders, 60, of the Bronx, was arrested yesterday and arraigned in Yonkers Criminal Court on a charge of murder in the second degree.
S4 If convicted, he faces a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.

S5 Mr. Saunders bought the home, a three-bedroom, ranch-style house on Brendon Hill Road near the Scarsdale border, in June 2005 for $825,000, with a $650,000 mortgage.
S6 But the house was in some stage of foreclosure when the victim, Dr. Leandro Lozada, bought it eight months ago, the police said.
S7 Specifics of the sale were not available.

S8 Because of the continuing investigation and the possibility of suspects still at large, the police provided few details of Mr. Saunders's arrest or the case.
S9 They would not discuss any possible motive for the crime.

S10 But the arrest ended at least one chapter in one of the city's more baffling homicides.
S11 On Wednesday, Dr. Lozada, 46, who operated a medical clinic for the poor in the Bronx, was found by his female companion dead on the floor of his bedroom.
S12 He had been shot at point-blank range several times, including at least once in the face and once in the back of the head, the police said.
S13 No weapon was found at the scene.

S14 The doctor lived alone and there were no signs of a struggle, prompting the police to speculate that he knew his attacker.

S15 When Dr. Lozada completed the purchase of the house, he changed the locks, the police said yesterday.

S16 Edmund Hartnett, the Yonkers police commissioner, said yesterday at police headquarters, ''This act would be very difficult for one person to commit.''
S17 He did not elaborate.

S18 The commissioner said investigators had recovered items of interest from Mr. Saunders's apartment, including clothing that was possibly stained with human blood.

S19 It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Saunders had hired a lawyer.
S20 He has a criminal record, including grand larceny in 1996, the police said.

S21 Kim VanZandt, who lives next to the house, said Mr. Saunders had put it back on the market after living there just one month.
S22 She said he believed when he bought the house that it had a larger backyard, and was angry when the owners of a house abutting his property erected a stone wall in what he considered his yard.

S23 At Mr. Saunders's apartment building in the Bronx, on Pennyfield Avenue near the Throgs Neck Bridge, a woman answering the buzzer for his apartment declined to be interviewed.
S24 ''It's private,'' she said.

S25 Dr. Lozada was a native of the Dominican Republic who earned his medical degree at the University of Santo Domingo.
S26 He spent much of his time at his practice, Hispanic Pediatrics, at 229 East Kingsbridge Road in the Bronx, where he treated mainly immigrant patients.

S27 On Thursday, dozens of patients stopped by Dr. Lozada's office to set up a shrine in his memory.

