URL https://www.reuters.com/article/us-germany-farright-trial-verdict/neo-nazi-murder-gang-member-jailed-for-life-in-germany-idUSKBN1K10Y1

DATE/ AUTHOR 2018-07-11 16:15:46+00:00	AUTHORS: Jörn Poltz, Min Read

H Neo-Nazi murder gang member jailed for life in Germany

S1 MUNICH (Reuters) - A member of a German neo-Nazi gang was jailed for life on Wednesday for her part in the murders of 10 people during a seven-year campaign of racially-motivated violence.

S2 Beate Zschaepe, 43, showed no reaction as the judge read out her sentence at the end of one of the most closely watched court cases in Germany’s post-war history.

S3 She was part of the National Socialist Underground (NSU), whose members killed eight Turks, a Greek man and a German policewoman from 2000 to 2007, the Higher Regional Court in Munich ruled.

S4 The murders shook a country that believed it had learned the lessons of its past.
S5 A report later said police had "massively underestimated" the risk of far-right violence and that missteps had allowed the cell to go undetected.
S6 (reut.rs/2m7Xwkw)

S7 The judges said Zschaepe bore “particularly heavy guilt” and handed her the heaviest possible sentence.

S8 She had denied any knowledge of the murders during the five-year trial.
S9 But she said later she regretted not stopping two male members of the gang, Uwe Boehnhardt and Uwe Mundlos, from carrying out the killings.

S10 Those men killed themselves in 2011 when police discovered the gang by chance.

S11 Prosecutors said she had played a key role behind the scenes, planning the crimes and arranging money and alibis.

S12 Defendant Beate Zschaepe waits in a Munich courtroom before judges give their verdict in the trial of suspected NSU neo-Nazi gang member Zschaepe in Munich, Germany July 11, 2018.
S13 REUTERS/Michaela Rehle

S14 APPEAL

S15 “This is a just punishment for the NSU’s cold-blooded and unprecedented series of crimes,” Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann said in a statement.

S16 Five of the 10 murders took place in Bavaria, the most violent attacks of their kind in Germany since the far-left Red Army Faction’s two-decade killing spree that ended in 1991 and left at least 34 dead.

S17 “What the perpetrators did cannot be made up for.
S18 The victims will never be forgotten,” said German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas.
S19 He said Germany needed to tackle racist violence with diversity and the strength of law.

S20 Zschaepe was also found guilty of membership of a terrorist organization, of being co-perpetrator in two bombings, and of arson.

S21 Four men were also found guilty of supporting the NSU in various ways, including procuring weapons, and handed sentences from 2-1/2 to 10 years.
S22 A group of people in the court applauded when one of the men received a lower sentence than expected.

S23 Zschaepe’s lawyer, Mathias Grasel, said he would appeal against Wednesday’s ruling.

S24 “The verdict is wrong!” Grasel said in a statement.
S25 “Conviction for complicity is legally untenable.
S26 The fact is: Ms. Zschaepe was demonstrably present at no crime scene and never fired a weapon or detonated a bomb.”

S27 Turkey’s foreign ministry said the trial had not uncovered the full story of the murder of its citizens and the other victims.

S28 Slideshow (11 Images)

S29 “Unfortunately, the ruling made today has not brought to light the real criminals, the background of the NSU murders and the connection between the deep state and intelligence to its full extent,” it said, without going into further detail.

S30 Relations between Germany and Turkey deteriorated sharply after Ankara’s crackdown on suspected supporters of a failed military coup in 2016, but have begun to improve lately.

