URL https://www.reuters.com/article/us-slovakia-crime/slovak-authorities-identify-possible-witness-in-journalists-murder-idUSKCN1LX1RE

DATE/ AUTHOR 2018-09-17 15:02:14+00:00	AUTHORS: Reuters Editorial, Min Read

H Slovak authorities identify possible witness in journalist's murder

S1 BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Slovak authorities have identified a possible witness in the murder of Slovak journalist Jan Kuciak, whose killing last February led mass protests that forced the government to resign, a state prosecutor said on Monday.

S2 FILE PHOTO: Candles are seen in front of the Government of the Slovak Republic's building during march in honour of murdered Slovak investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his girlfriend Martina Kusnirova in Bratislava, Slovakia, March 2, 2018.
S3 REUTERS/Radovan Stoklasa

S4 It was the first development in the case in the six months since the murder.

S5 “This person may have been present at or close to the crime scene around the time the crime was committed and may have information about the crime,” the prosecutor overseeing the case told a news conference.

S6 He declined to answer questions on whether that person was a suspect or just a witness.

S7 Kuciak, who had written about political corruption in Slovakia, was found shot dead along with his fiancee Martina Kusnirova at their home outside Bratislava in February.
S8 They were both 27.

S9 The murder - which police have called a professional hit - raised fears over media freedom in ex-communist Eastern Europe, and led to mass protests across the nation that forced the departure of previous police chief Tibor Gaspar as well as Prime Minister Robert Fico and interior minister Robert Kalinak.

S10 The cabinet was reshuffled with Fico’s deputy Peter Pellegrini taking over as prime minister but the three-party center-left coalition stayed in power.

S11 The prosecutor, who declined to give his name, said authorities had also whittled down possible motives to two.

S12 He held up a sketch of the possible witness depicting a white man with a beard and dark hair who appeared to be in his late 20s to early 30s.
S13 He provided no other details.

S14 “Despite initial mistakes in investigation, we have narrowed down possible motives from 30 to two,” the prosecutor said.
S15 “I believe we will be successful in the end.”

S16 The update on Monday came after more than 300 Slovak journalists and publishers last month criticized police for the lack of progress in the murder investigation and alleged corruption described by Kuciak.

S17 “As no fundamental changes to the police or to the prosecutorial bodies have taken place, we have doubts about the independence of the investigation,” they said in a statement.

S18 Kuciak had covered Slovak businessmen mentioned in the Panama Papers and also probed fraud cases involving businessmen with Slovak political ties.
S19 He had also been looking into suspected mafia links of Italians with businesses in Slovakia.

