URL http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2018-07/29/c_137355779.htm

DATE/ AUTHOR 2018-07-29 00:00:00	AUTHORS: 

H High profile Serbian lawyer killed in possible clash of drug cartels - Xinhua

S1 Source: Xinhua| 2018-07-29 19:40:17|Editor: xuxin

S2 Video Player Close

S3 BELGRADE, July 29 (Xinhua) -- Serbian lawyer Dragoslav Misa Ognjanovic was gunned down here on Saturday by an unknown perpetrator while his son was wounded, the police confirmed Sunday.

S4 The murder of the 56-year-old lawyer who was involved in some of the biggest cases in the past decade took place in New Belgrade around 7:30 p.m. local time in front of an apartment building.

S5 Head of the Criminal Police Directorate Dejan Kovacevic stated in a statement that the criminal police inspectors are conducting the investigation, while several other units are engaged in an ongoing intensive search for the perpetrator who killed lawyer Ognjanovic and wounded his 26-year-old son.

S6 Ognjanovic had represented some of the most famous clients.
S7 According to the reports, he was one of legal advisors of the former Serbia's President Slobodan Milosevic who was trialed for war crimes at the Hague, Netherlands until his death in 2006.

S8 Moreover, media reports connected Ognjanovic with Luka Bojovic, a citizen of Serbia who serves 18 years of prison in Spain due to organized crime charges, as well as Djordje Prelic, a leader of Partizan football fans convicted for murdering a French football fan in downtown Belgrade.

S9 According to reports, in recent years Ognjanovic mostly worked for Bojovic, while on the other hand, in past several months numerous Bojovic's associates and friends were shot dead in Belgrade in an alleged war of clans for the domination over the illegal narcotics trade.

S10 President of the Bar Association of Serbia Viktor Gostiljac told Tanjug News Agency that lawyers are in shock after the murder of Ognjanovic and announced that the association will stop working next week in protest.

S11 Gostiljac said on behalf of the members of the bar association that this represents an attack on all lawyers and demanded immediate action from the competent authorities.

S12 Immediately after the shooting, the police started a thorough operation of stopping and searching all suspicious vehicles and passers-by.

