URL http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9400E2DB133FF930A25757C0A9619C8B63

DATE/ AUTHOR None	AUTHORS: Ian Fisher

H Italy Proposes Rules for Handling Abductions

S1 Italy's fragile government, under fire for making a deal to free an Italian journalist in Afghanistan, on Thursday proposed international standards for confronting the rising number of high-profile kidnappings in war zones.

S2 The Italian move came as new appeals went out for Alan Johnston, the BBC reporter kidnapped at gunpoint in Gaza a month ago.
S3 In New York, the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, called for Mr. Johnston's release, saying that freedom of the press should be protected ''as a matter of principle.''

S4 There has been no word from Mr. Johnston, 44, since he disappeared on March 12.
S5 On Thursday, however, a Palestinian official, Saeb Erekat, said the government ''has been reassured by many sources that Mr. Johnston is alive.''

S6 Hostage-taking has long been a threat in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, though concerns have recently risen on several fronts.
S7 Among them was the two-week detention of 15 British sailors and marines by Iran, which accused them of trespassing in its national waters.
S8 All were released unharmed last week, amid allegations, denied by Britain, that an exchange was made for an Iranian diplomat arrested in Iraq.

S9 Here in Italy, the government has faced criticism at home and abroad for pressuring the Afghan government to release five Taliban prisoners for Daniele Mastrogiacomo, a reporter for La Repubblica, kidnapped last month.
S10 The United States, Britain and other nations contended that the deal would encourage more kidnappings.

S11 Inside Italy, that criticism rose on Sunday after Mr. Mastrogiacomo's Afghan interpreter, Ajmal Naqshbandi, was killed by the Taliban, which were demanding the release of two other prisoners.

S12 On Thursday, Massimo D'Alema, foreign minister for Italy's center-left government, strongly defended the deal to free Mr. Mastrogiacomo.

S13 ''We acted on the basis of one criterion: that of giving priority to the safety of the hostages,'' he said in a speech to the lower house of Parliament.
S14 ''This is an established principle, used over the years by various governments and always supported.''

S15 In this case, he said, Italy had been tricked, because it believed that the trade for Mr. Mastrogiacomo had included Mr. Naqshbandi as well.
S16 More generally, he said he believed that there should always be room for negotiation if it would save a hostage's life.

S17 ''At the same time, I think it's time to explore the possibility of guidelines shared on an international level, a code of shared behavior,'' he said.
S18 ''I think, for example, in the case of Afghanistan, of a discussion at NATO.''

S19 Center-right opposition leaders have accused the government of putting undue pressure on the Afghan government to swap the prisoners, and for caring more about the life of an Italian journalist than his Afghan interpreter.
S20 Mr. Mastrogiacomo's driver was also killed, shortly after he was kidnapped in southern Afghanistan.

S21 In the West Bank city of Ramallah, the BBC's director general, Mark Thompson, said at a news conference that he had met with the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, on Wednesday evening to discuss Mr. Johnston, and that Mr. Abbas had told him there was ''credible evidence'' that Mr. Johnston was safe and well.

S22 In Gaza City, Palestinian journalists rallied for Mr. Johnston's release, and they drove a convoy of cars through the city's streets.

S23 About 18 foreign journalists and aid workers have been kidnapped in Gaza in the past year, but most have been released unharmed, within hours or days.

