URL http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9C00EFDA1130F932A05750C0A9619C8B63

DATE/ AUTHOR None	AUTHORS: Carl Hulse, Thom Shanker

H Army’s War Funds Can Last Through July, Report Says

S1 The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service has estimated that the Army has enough budget flexibility to pay for its military operations through July in the event that a standoff between the White House and Congress over Iraq holds up the money the administration says it needs for the war effort.

S2 The service's report, made public Friday by Senate Democrats, said the Pentagon may have to shift money between accounts and curtail some nonessential activities, but said Congress has provided the military with new ability to do so, lessening the potential for disruptions until additional money is approved.

S3 Democrats quickly seized on the findings by the service, which is the research arm of Congress, to defend their handling of the legislation to pay for military operation in Iraq and Afghanistan.
S4 But the administration stepped up its efforts to accuse them of delaying money and putting American forces at risk.

S5 The back-and-forth suggested that both sides are digging in for a pitched public relations battle over who bears responsibility for holding up the money, should Mr. Bush veto it because of Congressionally imposed timelines for withdrawing troops from Iraq.

S6 At the White House, Dana Perino, a spokeswoman for the president, took Congress to task for leaving on an Easter break without finishing a final bill to pay for operations through Sept. 30.

S7 ''The president was surprised to learn that Congress went on vacation today and that the House didn't bother to appoint any conferees in which to help try to reconcile the differences between the Senate and the House bills,'' she said.
S8 ''And so I don't know how much work is going to be able to get done while they're away.''

S9 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said the report showed that the administration was overstating the potential impact on the military to try to force Congress to back down on the legislation, which would establish a schedule for bringing troops out of Iraq.

S10 ''This study confirms that the president is once again attempting to mislead the public and create an artificial atmosphere of anxiety,'' Mr. Reid said.
S11 ''He is using scare tactics to defeat bipartisan legislation that would change course in Iraq.''

S12 The document, dated Wednesday, said that based on Pentagon figures and estimates, the Army now has enough money to last through May.
S13 If it uses its ability to redirect money, the Army could support both its regular operations ''and war program for almost two additional months or through most of July 2007,'' an analyst for the research service said in the report for the Budget Committee.

S14 Senior Army officials said their estimate now is that ways can be found to pay for combat operations through the third week of June.
S15 These Army officials stressed that their planning was based on prudent management and not meant to influence the political debate between the White House and Congress.

S16 In a letter sent this week to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, Gen. Peter J. Schoomaker, the Army chief of staff, and Pete Geren, the acting Army secretary, said that without new money in April, the Army would ''be forced to take increasingly draconian measures which will impact Army readiness and impose hardships on our soldiers and their families.''

S17 While the Congressional Research Service document said the Army could keep money flowing to Iraq through midsummer, it acknowledged there would be costs associated with the financial juggling.

S18 ''In order to ensure that funding is available for the later months of the year, the Army may very well decide that it must slow down its non-war-related operations before money would run out by, for example, limiting facility maintenance and repairs, delaying equipment overhauls, restricting travel and meetings, and perhaps slowing down training,'' the analysis said.

S19 At the Pentagon, officials stressed that turning to special budget tools to guarantee money for troops in combat would be more expensive and inefficient.
S20 The first crunch period would come by the end of May, should the impasse not be resolved, when money in the accounts that pay for military operations and maintenance would be exhausted.

S21 If that were to happen, Army officials said, units preparing to go to Iraq would not have enough money to undertake all of the required training.
S22 Since no units are sent into combat until certified, units now in Iraq would have to extend their tours until money was available to fully train fresh units.

S23 If the budget impasse drags past the end of May, then Army and Pentagon officials could redirect money from other accounts -- such as personnel -- to pay for the war effort.
S24 In that case, the Army would make its requests to the secretary of defense, who would seek the endorsement of the White House's Office of Management and Budget.
S25 But Congressional approval would be required for money to be transferred between accounts, and that process could take weeks.

S26 THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ

