URL http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9903EFDF163FF937A35757C0A9619C8B63

DATE/ AUTHOR None	AUTHORS: Carl Hulse

H Tussle Over Iraq Bill Reminds Many of Bitter 1995

S1 The parallels are striking: bold new Congressional majorities swept into power by public dissatisfaction with White House policies.
S2 The administration and Congress digging in for a test of wills over federal spending.
S3 A watershed presidential election looming.

S4 Memories of the rancorous 1995 budget fight between President Clinton and leaders of the Republican revolution are casting a distinct shadow over the current impasse between President Bush and Congressional Democrats on Iraq.
S5 Each side believes it can apply lessons learned from that earlier battle to its strategy in the current showdown.

S6 The 1995 budget fight grew out of the push by Republicans -- riding their historic House takeover the year before -- for cuts in federal spending, with Medicare as their poster child for a bloated federal program.
S7 When Mr. Clinton refused to go along with trimming the program, budget talks collapsed, and the resulting 21-day shutdown put nearly 300,000 federal workers on furlough and disrupted public services.

S8 Republicans were outmaneuvered in that battle, and found that the public blamed them for a shutdown of federal agencies.
S9 Today, they stand behind the executive branch, with 150 Republican House members promising Mr. Bush they would sustain his veto of a war spending measure that sets a timeline for leaving Iraq.

S10 Democrats, who sided with the president in 1995, are the ones challenging the White House now, bolstered by public sentiment against the war.

S11 Even as those in the middle of the current clash strategize about the next move, some figures central to the past fight say the differences are more pronounced than the similarities.

S12 ''There were no Americans risking their lives at the Washington monument in 1995,'' said Newt Gingrich, the Republican speaker at the time whom critics accused of badly overplaying his hand.

S13 ''There were no Americans being shot at the Interior Department in 1995,'' he said.
S14 ''We were engaged in a domestic political debate over being serious over a balanced budget.
S15 The Democrats risk sending signals to our enemies that kidnapping British sailors and killing young Americans is acceptable.''

S16 Tom Daschle, the Senate minority leader in 1995, sees differences as well, but believes they play to Democratic strengths, with Mr. Bush defending an unpopular war and Democrats treading more carefully than did Mr. Gingrich and his coterie.

S17 ''Newt Gingrich boasted of shutting the government down,'' recalled Mr. Daschle.
S18 ''He was proud of the fact he was doing that just to show his will.
S19 Republicans felt they had a mandate and could do what they wanted.
S20 I don't think you could find a Democrat who thinks they have a mandate, but we do have a chance.''

S21 Almost from the beginning of the budget fight in 1995, Mr. Clinton's poll numbers edged up and those of Mr. Gingrich, the Republican speaker of the House, dipped as the public perceived the president as the one trying to resolve the problem and Republicans as inflexible.
S22 One difference with 1995 was that in that episode, there was tangible fallout for Americans as parks and museums closed, benefit checks were delayed and an array of federal assistance was suspended.

S23 Today, the administration is making the case that the military will be denied resources, and some tours in Iraq might have to be extended if no bill is approved.
S24 But the Pentagon appears to have the flexibility to pay for operations at least through May and possibly longer with substantial juggling.
S25 Nevertheless, any event detrimental to the troops that could be tied to the impasse could cause a backlash for Democrats.

S26 Republicans say they continue to believe that much of the public still regards the president as the nation's pre-eminent leader and that Congress should not meddle in White House business too deeply.

S27 ''With us it was a bridge too far,'' said Representative Jack Kingston, Republican of Georgia, recalling the duel with Mr. Clinton.
S28 ''Tactically, we made a mistake and found the American people still liked the office of the presidency having some dominance.
S29 This is the Democrats' government shutdown.''

S30 But Democrats say that Mr. Bush is operating in an atmosphere of deep skepticism and that he must fight his own low poll numbers as well as public frustration with the war -- even though a recent survey showed a slight gain in optimism about Iraq.

S31 ''We have had a chance to study 1995, and Democrats are bound and determined to make sure it won't happen to them,'' said Jim Manley, a spokesman for Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader.
S32 ''Here we have a president seriously at odds with the American people.''

S33 Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, the current chairman of the House Democratic Caucus and a senior aide in the Clinton administration, said Mr. Bush was retracing the missteps of Mr. Gingrich, courting conflict, while Mr. Clinton displayed a willingness to compromise.

S34 ''President Clinton started off with, 'Come on, let's talk, let's negotiate,' '' said Mr. Emanuel.
S35 ''President Bush has started off with confrontation.''

S36 Indeed, the White House has drawn a hard line, saying it will not legitimize a Democratic withdrawal plan of any sort by accepting it as part of legislation.
S37 Two Democrats said that Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, urged Mr. Bush to work with Democrats on the war while the two mingled in her office before a Capitol Rotunda ceremony last week; the Democrats said that Mr. Bush's reply was essentially, ''I am where I am.''

S38 Both sides are trying to exploit openings.
S39 Republicans, aware of Mr. Bush's low standing, point to the added domestic spending in the House and Senate bills, trying to build resentment to pork-barrel projects.
S40 The White House is employing its presidential megaphone, particularly with Congress out of town for Easter.
S41 Mr. Bush took to the Rose Garden on Tuesday to warn of ''significant consequences for our men and women in the armed forces.''

S42 Democrats immediately fired back, accusing the president of being out of touch with the public and calling on him to negotiate.

S43 ''I saw a lot of what happened when my husband had a Republican Congress,'' said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, as she toured Iowa as part of her presidential campaign.
S44 ''We would stake out one position, they would stake out one position.
S45 And then people would begin to try to figure out how to narrow the difference.
S46 That's what should be happening here.''

S47 It is difficult to predict who will prevail.
S48 After all, no one foresaw in the fall of 1995 that a simple legislative dispute would end up stalling the momentum of a determined new majority and enhancing the standing of an embattled president.

S49 CONGRESSIONAL MEMO

