URL https://www.reuters.com/article/us-southchinasea-ruling-idUSKCN0ZY0FJ

DATE/ AUTHOR 2016-07-18 23:10:04+00:00	AUTHORS: Ben Blanchard, Min Read

H Freedom of navigation patrols may end 'in disaster': Chinese admiral

S1 BEIJING (Reuters) - Freedom of navigation patrols carried out by foreign navies in the South China Sea could end “in disaster”, a senior Chinese admiral has said, a warning to the United States after last week’s ruling against Beijing’s claims in the area.

S2 China has refused to recognize the ruling by an arbitration court in The Hague that invalidated its vast territorial claims in the South China Sea, and did not take part in the proceedings brought by the Philippines.

S3 It has reacted angrily to calls by Western countries and Japan for adherence to the decision.

S4 MORE TOP STORIES FROM REUTERS: Anti-Trump revolt quashed

S5 Viacom's top two executives reserve right to resign

S6 China has repeatedly blamed the United States for stirring up trouble in the South China Sea, a strategic waterway through which more than $5 trillion of trade moves annually.

S7 China, Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam all have rival claims, of which China’s is the largest.

S8 Related Coverage Vietnam TV station drops Chinese drama over South China Sea dispute

S9 The United States has conducted freedom of navigation patrols close to Chinese-held islands, to Beijing’s anger, while China has been bolstering its military presence there.

S10 Speaking behind closed doors at a forum in Beijing on Saturday evening, Sun Jianguo, an admiral and deputy chief of the Joint Staff Department of the powerful Central Military Commission, said the freedom of navigation issue was bogus and one that certain countries repeatedly hyped up.

S11 “When has freedom of navigation in the South China Sea ever been affected?
S12 It has not, whether in the past or now, and in the future there won’t be a problem as long as nobody plays tricks,” he said, according to a transcript of his comments seen by Reuters on Monday.

S13 China is the biggest beneficiary of freedom of navigation in the South China Sea and won’t let anybody damage it, Sun said.

S14 IT'S EARNINGS SEASON: Netflix definitely has a growth problem

S15 Yahoo reported quarterly results, but investors weren't really looking for numbers

S16 “But China consistently opposes so-called military freedom of navigation, which brings with it a military threat and which challenges and disrespects the international law of the sea,” Sun said.

S17 Commander of the Chinese navy, Admiral Wu Shengli (R) shakes hands with U.S. Chief of Naval Operations Admiral John Richardson during a welcome ceremony held at the Chinese Navy Headquarters in Beijing, China, July 18, 2016.
S18 REUTERS/Ng Han Guan/Pool

S19 “This kind of military freedom of navigation is damaging to freedom of navigation in the South China Sea, and it could even play out in a disastrous way,” he added, without elaborating.

S20 A U.S. Defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the United States reserved the right to carry out freedom of navigation operations and the Chinese admiral’s comments would not change that.

S21 Sun also said the court case at The Hague must be used by China’s armed forces to improve its capabilities “so that when push comes to shove, the military can play a decisive role in the last moment to defend our national sovereignty and interests”.

S22 Despite the warnings, China and the United States have been maintaining open lines of communication, with U.S. Chief of Naval Operations John Richardson meeting the head of the Chinese navy, Wu Shengli, in Beijing on Monday.

S23 “I think that you can visit China this time at our invitation, that shows both sides attach great concern to maritime security,” Wu told Richardson in brief comments in front of reporters.

S24 In the meeting, Wu said China would not stop building reefs and islands in the sea, state-owned Xinhua news agency reported, with that construction also a part of China’s efforts to bolster its claims.

S25 Separately, China’s Maritime Safety Administration said on Monday that an area just off the east of the island province of Hainan would be a no-sail zone from July 19-21 while military drills take place.

S26 China generally describes its exercises in the South China Sea as routine.

S27 Slideshow (4 Images)

S28 China’s air force also said on its microblog it had recently carried out “normal battle patrols” over the South China Sea involving bombers, spy planes and flying tankers, including over Scarborough Shoal, which is disputed with the Philippines.

S29 Such air patrols would become “a regular practice” in the future, Xinhua reported an air force spokesman as saying.

