H  Celtics forward Sullinger's girlfriend, but not DA, willing to drop charges 

S1  EDNOTES: (FOR USE BY NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE CLIENTS)

S2  DA pursues assault case vs. Celtics player © 2013 The New York Times

S3  The domestic assault case against Celtics forward Jared Sullinger will continue despite pleas from his girlfriend to drop the charges.

S4  Sullinger, 21, was in Waltham District Court on Monday to face charges of assault and battery, destruction of property, and intimidation of a witness in an Aug. 31 conflict with his girlfriend, Deann Smith, at Sullinger’s Waltham residence.

S5  Sullinger’s lawyer, Charles Rankin, said Smith does not want to continue the case and is not fearful of Sullinger, but the Middlesex district attorney’s office is planning to pursue it.

S6  Sullinger’s next pretrial hearing is Oct. 28, two days before the Celtics open the regular season against the Raptors at Toronto.

S7  ''The case is pending,'' said Stephanie Chelf Guyotte, director of communications for the Middlesex district attorney’s office.
S8 ''We believe we have evidence supporting the charges and we’re continuing to move forward.''

S9  Sullinger, who is entering his second season with the Celtics, turned himself in Sept. 3.
S10 He was released on $5,000 bail after pleading not guilty and was given a no-contact stipulation with Smith unless another party was involved.
S11 Sullinger later released a statement through the team expressing embarrassment.

S12  According to the police report, Sullinger and Smith had an argument when she found evidence on his cellphone that he had been unfaithful.
S13 Sullinger allegedly pinned her down and damaged her cellphone before leaving the apartment.

S14  After Sullinger was arrested, the Celtics released a statement saying the team was disappointed in him, but have not commented since.

S15  The Celtics are scheduled to start training camp Sept. 30, and Sullinger is expected to participate.
S16 He was limited to 45 games last season because of back surgery.

S17  Sullinger may also face an NBA suspension, depending on the outcome of the case.

S18  A settlement could be reached before Oct. 28.

