URL http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2017-11/30/c_136790504.htm

DATE/ AUTHOR 2017-11-30 00:00:00	AUTHORS: 

H Suning Group selected into Xinhua's National Brands Project - Xinhua

S1 Xinhua Silk Road Information Service| 2017-11-30 15:39:37|Editor: Lu Hui

S2 Video Player Close

S3 BEIJING, Nov. 30 (Xinhua) -- Suning Group was selected into Xinhua News Agency's National Brands Project in Beijing on Thursday.

S4 Suning therefore has become the 19th corporate member of the project, which was launched to promote China's brands power strategy.

S5 Liu Zhengrong, vice president and secretary general of Xinhua News Agency, and Sun Weimin, vice chairman of Suning Commerce Group, attended the signing ceremony of the two parties.

S6 Founded in 1990, Suning is a leading commerce enterprise in China.
S7 Over the past two decades, Suning has fixed the corporate mission of “leading the industrial ecology and creating quality life” and constantly extended its businesses.

S8 At present, it has formed a pattern of coordinated development of six industries including commerce, real estate, financial services, media and entertainment, sports, and investment.
S9 In July 2017, Suning Commerce Group under Suning Group was included in the list of the Fortune Global 500 Companies.

S10 With the launch of the Belt and Road Initiative, Suning has embraced the new space and new opportunities for its international development.
S11 The big consumption ecosphere cultivated by Suning has been going global.
S12 Suning is actively cooperating with the countries along the Belt and Road.

S13 (Ceremony of Suning Group’s selection into Xinhua News Agency’s National Brands Project)

S14 At the ceremony, the two sides announced that they will carry out all-round strategic cooperation in terms of brand story, overseas communication, brand promotion and big events to jointly enhance influence of Suning at home and abroad.

S15 Cooperation with Xinhua News Agency this time will produce an assembly effect of their superior resources and release much stronger brand potential energy.
S16 Suning looks forward to joining hands with Xinhua News Agency’s National Brands Project to send message of Suning together to the world and show cultural confidence of the Chinese national brands to the world, according to Sun Weimin, vice chairman of Suning Commerce Group.

S17 (Yang Chunguang, former deputy director of State Administration of Civil Service, president of the Fifth Council of the China Association for Promoting International Economic & Technical Cooperation (CAPC) and member of the 12th CPPCC National Committee addresses the signing ceremony.)

S18 Xinhua News Agency’s National Brands Project, launched at exactly the right time, offers an effective channel for the excellent Chinese enterprises to further expand the brand influence, said Yang Chunguang, former deputy director of State Administration of Civil Service, president of the Fifth Council of the China Association for Promoting International Economic & Technical Cooperation (CAPC) and member of the 12th CPPCC National Committee at the signing ceremony.

S19 (Wei Jianguo, former vice minister of Commerce and vice president of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, addresses the signing ceremony.)

S20 Chinese enterprises and Chinese brands need Xinhua’s strong credibility, dissemination power and influence when they go global.
S21 In the future, more Chinese brands will join the National Brands Project, which requires Xinhua and all media staff to disseminate the Chinese brands in an innovative manner and let the global market share value of the Chinese brands, said Wei Jianguo, former vice minister of Commerce and vice president of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges at the signing ceremony.

S22 (Pan Qingzhong, executive dean of Schwarzman Scholars at Tsinghua University addresses the signing ceremony.)

S23 The National Brands Project is an important tool to help the national brands to go global, and is far-reaching to promote the brands power strategy and build the “Great Wall” of the national economy, Pan Qingzhong, executive dean of Schwarzman Scholars at Tsinghua University addressed the signing ceremony.

S24 (Zhang Yongping, general manager of General Manager Office of Xinhua News Agency addresses the ceremony.)

S25 As a national and worldwide news agency, Xinhua has the responsibility to offer all-round support for the brands power strategy, help Chinese enterprises build national brands, and cultivate more “century-old shops”, said Zhang Yongping, general manager of General Manager Office of Xinhua News Agency.

S26 (Source: Xinhua Silk Road Information Service)

