URL http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=950CE5D81F31F930A15756C0A9619C8B63

DATE/ AUTHOR None	AUTHORS: Julia Werdigier

H Boards Feel the Heat as Investor Activists Speak Up

S1 The occasional activist has stirred up a revolt at an annual general meeting, led a no-confidence vote against management and even taken executives to court.
S2 Those have been the extreme cases.

S3 But in Europe, shareholder activism -- a term that brings to mind Carl C. Icahn or Kirk Kerkorian, unseating directors and forcing spinoffs with elbows-out tactics -- now seems to be moving toward Main Street and into the hands of ordinary investors.

S4 These no-frills activists are changing the dynamics at the top, their measured but pointed agitation pitting previously passive shareholders, who are used to expressing displeasure by simply selling their shares, against senior management.

S5 In many cases, the shareholders are gaining the upper hand, nudging up share prices and sometimes forcing out an executive or forcing the sale of the company.
S6 Most recently, the Children's Investment Fund turned dissatisfaction into deal-making at ABN Amro, leading to rival bids for the bank, the largest in the Netherlands.

S7 Then Peter Paul de Vries, the feisty head of the Dutch shareholder association VEB, successfully took ABN Amro's management to court, accusing it of bypassing shareholders when selling one of the bank's most attractive assets.

S8 ''What we have seen so far may only be the beginning,'' said Antonio Borges, chairman of the European Corporate Governance Institute and a vice chairman at Goldman Sachs in London.
S9 ''There are many more opportunities as there are many more underperforming companies.''

S10 Prudential, one of Britain's largest insurers, on May 17 faced calls from Hermes, a London-based hedge fund, and other shareholders to break itself up.
S11 Deutsche Börse, the operator of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, this month removed from the agenda of its annual shareholder meeting a motion that would have made it easier to issue new shares without asking shareholders -- mainly to appease rebellious Atticus Capital, a New York-based hedge fund.

S12 A number of recent cases have shown that shareholder activism can pay: the UK Focus Fund of Hermes, which has taken an activist tack, had annual returns of 4.9 percentage points above the FTSE All-Share Index from 1998 to 2004, according to a 2006 study by the London Business School and the European Corporate Governance Institute.

S13 Yet, activism does not come cheap.
S14 The Children's Investment Fund hired its own press relations specialist to send out almost daily updates to journalists about its ABN Amro campaign.
S15 Knight Vinke Asset Management, the Monaco-based activist investor, last year ran advertisements in French and British newspapers to campaign for a breakup of Suez, the French utility.

S16 Small shareholder associations, whose membership fees do not cover such large campaigns, are happy to jump on the bandwagon, said Jean-Pierre Paelinck, secretary general of Euroshareholders in Brussels.

S17 The efforts seem to be persuading executives that they need to listen to shareholders or risk their jobs and control over their company.

S18 Rijkman W. J. Groenink, ABN Amro's chief executive, in an emotional outburst on April 28, complained to a Dutch court that his company had become ''a toy for hedge funds.''

S19 Werner G. Seifert, who was ousted as chief executive of Deutsche Börse after an activist investor campaign, last year disclosed his frustration in a memoir called ''Invasion of the Locusts.''

S20 Those who have not yet had contact with activist investors are seeking advice.
S21 Calls from executives asking what to do in case an activist hedge fund buys into the company are definitely on the rise, said Philip Keevil, a senior partner at Compass Advisers, a merger advisory firm, in London.

S22 Shareholder activism does not need to be confrontational, he said.
S23 Managers sometimes welcome active shareholders because it gives them an opportunity to push for changes.

S24 But senior executives are also being pressured to deliver shareholder returns as the investment base of companies shifts from passive institutional investors with longer-term horizons to hedge funds focused on the short term, sometimes holding as little as a 1 percent stake in a company.

S25 Activism was further fueled by a realization among shareholders that selling shares, often at a loss, to protest unsuccessful management did not really change anything.
S26 It simply meant the investment was now weighing on someone else's portfolio as the company continued to underperform.

S27 ''Activist shareholders are giving more confidence to those who felt in the past that they had no say and remind managers of their duties to account for shareholders' interest,'' said David Brooks, head of mergers at the advisory firm Grant Thornton in London.

S28 The recent explosion of private equity wealth and the rising appetite for takeovers are adding to the pressure on management to listen to shareholders.
S29 Analysts say shareholder activism is also focusing on a growing distrust of senior management that can be traced back to corporate scandals like those at Enron and Parmalat.

S30 There is a general tendency that ''if there is a problem with the company, shareholders will say, 'Let's do something about it ourselves and don't trust the directors to do so,' '' said Roger Lawson, communications director for the UK Shareholders' Association.

S31 Encouraged by the success of activist investors, traditional asset management firms like Fidelity Investments, the largest mutual fund company in the world, and Templeton, which never made public statements about their investments in the past, also became more vocal and in some instances publicly threw their weight behind an activist hedge fund.

S32 Henderson Global Investors, a 73-year-old British asset management firm, is planning later this year to set up an ''active engagement fund'' to look for undervalued companies, buy a stake in them and work together with the management to improve performance and enhance shareholder value.

S33 Even though shareholder activism is generally considered to be positive because it makes companies more efficient and increases shareholder returns, some analysts said that the focus on short-term returns can mean important long-term goals were neglected.

S34 Under pressure to perform, managers may feel forced to come up with short-term fixes for problems that would otherwise require more time to solve, said Mr. Brooks of Grant Thornton.

S35 But Mr. Borges at the European Corporate Governance Institute said these would remain exceptions because it was in the interest of short-term investors to sell their shares at a profit, and they could do so only if they found new investors who believed in the long-term potential of the revamped company.

S36 Despite the possible high returns, shareholder activism remains hard work.
S37 Just how hard is illustrated by the retirement plans of Mr. de Vries, who after 18 years of fighting for shareholders' rights decided to leave the Dutch shareholder group in October.
S38 Until then, he said, he will fight on and wonder who will be around longer: he or Mr. Groenink of ABN Amro.

