URL http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=940CE5D61430F932A05756C0A9619C8B63

DATE/ AUTHOR None	AUTHORS: Leslie Eaton

H Louisiana Sets Deadline for Storm Damage Claims

S1 The Road Home, the Louisiana grant program for homeowners who lost their houses to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, is expected to cost far more than the $7.5 billion provided by the federal government, in part because many more families have applied than officials had anticipated.

S2 As a result, Louisiana officials on Tuesday night set a July 31 deadline for applicants, who can receive up to $150,000 to repair or rebuild their houses.
S3 With the cutoff date, the state hopes to be able to figure out how much more money it needs to pay for the program; the shortfall is projected to be $2.9 billion.

S4 The financial woes of the Road Home have set off a frenzy of finger-pointing between federal and state officials, who blame one another for the projected shortfall.

S5 But it has stirred something close to despair among some Louisiana residents, who were already bemoaning the sluggish way the program has given out the money it does have; only 22,000 families statewide, out of 140,000 applicants, have received grants so far, for a total of $1.3 billion.

S6 The new problem has reinforced the fears of many in New Orleans that they are being abandoned by the federal government, even as it acknowledges that its levee system failed during Hurricane Katrina.

S7 ''There's no way they can ever make everybody whole, but they need to fix the thing they broke,'' said Frank A. Silvestri, a New Orleans lawyer and co-founder of the Citizens' Road Home Action Team, which has been critical of the program.

S8 Evidence that the program is likely to run out of money has been building for several weeks as the state has finally begun making a significant number of grants since the inception of the Road Home nine months ago.
S9 The grants have averaged about $76,000, which is more than the roughly $60,000 the state predicted last August.

S10 State officials say that many more houses turned out to have had severe damage than federal data indicated back when the program was created.
S11 They have also been surprised by a recent surge in applications, which are running at several hundred a day, almost two years after the storms, said Gentry Brann, director of communications for the program.

S12 The state also expected private insurance companies to cover a larger percentage of the damage, said Walter J. Leger Jr., a lawyer and member of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, which created the Road Home program.

S13 ''Anecdotally, the companies aren't paying,'' Mr. Leger said.
S14 ''National Flood Insurance paid out, but private insurers didn't.''
S15 Insurance benefits are generally subtracted from grants awarded by the program.

S16 But Mr. Leger and other state officials concede that many homeowners may have preferred to try to get larger grants from the Road Home, rather than fight with their insurers.

S17 The Bush administration contends that the state itself created the shortfall by paying for home damage caused by wind, rather than limiting the program to flood damage.
S18 Insurance policies are more likely to cover wind damage than flood damage.

S19 The decision to pay for wind damage added about 43,000 houses to the likely total covered by the program, at a cost of about $2.6 billion, according to data from the office of Donald E. Powell, President Bush's coordinator for Gulf Coast rebuilding.

S20 Even so, Mr. Powell ''is not opposed to additional funding -- if the state can make a clear case for more funds,'' his spokeswoman, Susan Aspey, wrote in an e-mail message.
S21 ''He wants to get this resolved as quickly as possible for the people of Louisiana, and he's indicated his willingness to sit down with the governor and her staff to work towards that end.''

S22 State officials, from the governor on down, say the program has always covered wind damage, and that they do not understand why Mr. Powell is raising the issue so late in the game.
S23 The state had a similar run-in with the Department of Housing and Urban Development over the way it paid out the grant money, and ended up changing the program in April.

S24 Louisiana is also fighting the Federal Emergency Management Agency for more than $1 billion it was counting on for the Road Home program.
S25 FEMA says it cannot release the money -- intended for hazard-mitigation efforts like elevating houses -- because the Road Home discriminates against younger people by exempting people 65 and older from a requirement that grant recipients live in their rebuilt houses for three years.

S26 Further complicating the financial picture is the fact that the state treasury is running a budget surplus of about $3 billion, which some in Washington have argued should be used to bail out the Road Home.

S27 A United States Senate subcommittee that held a hearing on the program last week is likely to recommend ways to fix it in a report to be released in June, said Stephanie Allen, a spokeswoman for Senator Mary L. Landrieu, the Louisiana Democrat who is chairwoman of the subcommittee.

S28 ''She doesn't think the federal government should be responsible for the entire bailout,'' Ms. Allen said.
S29 ''It should be a combined effort of the federal government and the state.''

